And it's kind of interesting how great thou art, what a wonderful song that is.
And if you looked at the bulletin today, the title of the message this evening, Only God
is Great.
Isn't that awesome?
I've told you before, and even though Dean was sick last week, I said, Dean, are you
going to pick the songs or do you need me to?
He said, nope, I got it.
I'm going to pick the songs.
I said, all right, we need them by this time.
And just like Dean, he said, I'll have them to you by four o'clock, and about six o'clock
we got them, amen.
And he's in the back, ha ha, he'll chuckle, he'll get it.
But he got us the songs, and there it was, How Great Thou Art, and Only God is Great.
I just love how the Holy Spirit does that.
And last Sunday evening, I preached a message about the Lord led me.
And it's kind of interesting, I'll share a quick testimony.
We were out doing some door hangers yesterday.
Some folks were doing some door knocking, and we just wanted to get the rest of the
door hangers out.
And we had about 200 left that we needed to get distributed.
So Joseph and I went over to an apartment complex, we're going to get it done.
And we're going, and there's four flights, four levels to these apartment complexes,
and we're getting them done.
And he's on one building, I'm on another building, and we're doing it.
And as I'm nearing the end, I'm kind of counting how many I have left, and I'm going up to
the third level.
And I knew that I was going to be too short for the fourth level.
I had enough for the third level, but I was going to be too short.
So I'm going to just pray, Lord, who am I supposed to, how do you know which two doors
to put it on?
I don't know.
And so I just, I kind of prayed this, let it be that two doors have doormats, and those
would be the doors that I put it on.
And so I get up to the third level, and not one door on the third level had doormats.
Now I had enough for the third level, but I was a little bit, just being honest, I was
a little bit like my faith was kind of, all right, I prayed that two on the fourth level
would have them, so I knew which door to put them on, and now we got zero on level
three.
And you know, Ron, I got to level four, and you know, there were two doors that had doormats.
And that just encouraged me, and just a simple blessing.
And I got back to the car, shared that with Joseph, and he said, well, I got to the last
level I was going to be on, and I only had one.
And he said, so I looked, and he said, the number of the first door, the first one that
I saw was 1023.
And that would be, if you looked at it as a date, that would be October 23rd, and that's
Lana's birthday.
So he said, well, that's a good door to put it on, too.
If you know who Lana is, it's his girlfriend, if not, well, now you know.
And so her birthday's on, but it's just kind of, the Lord does things like that for you,
just to encourage you, and I'm thankful that we have a God who is interested in our lives.
Just a little, sometimes we think, well, it's just a little thing.
But God does provide direction, and so I'm thankful for that.
Psalm 86, we're not going to read the entire psalm this evening.
I'm going to focus specifically on verses 10 and 11.
Notice the Bible, it says this in verse 10 of Psalm 86.
For thou art great, and doest wondrous things, thou art God alone.
Teach me thy way, O Lord.
I will walk in thy truth.
Unite my heart to fear thy name.
Some of you may be familiar with King Louis XIV of France.
He was often referred to as Louis the Great.
He established an absolute monarchy, declared himself to be the center of the universe.
He reigned for 72 years.
It is said that at his funeral in 1715, that Bishop John Baptiste Massillon was the one
that was to officiate the particular funeral service, and it is said that he walked into
that crowded building, that room where that casket lay, and in that room, there was one
lonely candle that was lit.
He walked into that building, and he took and he extinguished that candle with his fingers,
and he said this, only God is great.
Isn't that awesome?
I really don't know a whole lot more about that fella, but I think that's good.
And that's not an endorsement on him.
Don't go look him up and say, well, pastor said, I'm telling you, I don't know anything
else about him.
I just know that I read that story, and I thought that's pretty awesome.
And the reality this evening is that that statement that only God is great, it serves
as our title this evening, but that is a truth that I hope that you have deep within
your heart, that you know and that you recognize that God is great.
We serve a great God, and he is to be worshiped and to be praised, and we find that within
the text in verse number 10 and 11 will be the focus, because really, verses 10 and 11
is the practical living for us today.
This is David, a psalm of David, a prayer of David, but I want you to notice in verse
number nine, if you will, not really the main emphasis of the message this evening,
but notice in verse number nine, the Bible says this, all nations whom thou hast made
shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorify thy name.
That's a prophetic truth that God gives us here in Psalm 86 and verse number nine.
A prophetic truth for us to be mindful of.
I'm thankful that God's greatness will be known and will be declared, and we find that
today as we live in this time, in this moment, we have the opportunity to recognize the greatness
of God and to worship him and to declare his greatness.
Keep your hand here in Psalm 86, but notice over, if you will, in Psalm 48, and I want
a psalm that we're familiar with, in fact, we sing a song, it's a scripture song that
we'll sing from Psalm 48, and verses one and two is really the thought of the song that
we'll sing, and Psalm 48, it says this in verse number one, great is the Lord and greatly
to be praised.
The city of our God and the mountain of his holiness, beautiful for situation, the joy
of the whole earth, is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great
king.
At the end of the psalm ends this way in verse number 14, for this God is our God forever
and ever, he will be our guide even unto death.
And this evening as we begin to think about this truth that only God is great, I want
you to notice if you're taking notes from verse number 10 this evening, notice number
one, what the psalmist recognized.
There are three statements that are made in verse number 10, and they're all worthy
of our attention this evening.
Notice he says this, for thou art great.
I wonder this evening, have you come to the place in your life where you've recognized
that God is great?
I'm talking about the reality this evening, the understanding to be settled and determined,
unwavering, that God is great.
There are times in which we see something, we watch somebody, there's this phrase that's
going around today that's pretty just understandable, they talk about the GOAT, the greatest of
all time, and they talk about somebody being great, and there's debates that they have
between athletes and so on and so forth, but I want you to understand deep in your heart
and deep in my heart, we have to know that God is great.
The psalmist will declare in Psalm 135 that he knows that the Lord is great.
And I begin to think about how God has revealed his greatness, and as I begin to think about
the psalmist saying, thou art great, I begin to think about the attributes of God that
make the psalmist come to the conclusion that God is great.
Look if you will in verse number one, bow down thine ear, O Lord, hear me, for I am
poor and needy.
Listen, our God is great because he cares about us as poor and needy.
Our God is great because he knows our affairs, he knows that we're just but dust, he knows
what we're made of, and he knows us and he cares about us and he hears us when we pray.
He says in verse number two, preserve my soul, for I am holy, O thou my God, save thy servant
that trusteth in thee.
Be merciful unto me, O Lord, for I cry unto thee daily.
How does he say, for thou art great, listen, God is great in his mercy.
I think about what Paul says when he's writing there to the church at Ephesus, and he talks
about our great, our God who is rich in mercy.
And I think about the mercy of God, and here he says, be merciful unto me.
Verse four, rejoice the soul of thy servant, for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Then he tells us, verse five, for thou, Lord, art good and ready to forgive and plenteous
in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.
Give ear, O Lord, unto my prayer and attend to the voice of my supplications.
In the day of trouble, I will call unto thee, for thou wilt answer me.
As you see in these first seven verses, there are many things that the psalmist understands
to be true about God.
There are many things that you could really take and develop an entire message or series
on these first verses of Psalm 86, and you find that the psalmist is rejoicing and understanding
who God is.
And then he will say in verse number 10, for thou art great.
This evening, the understanding that you have of God's greatness must come from the
truth of this book.
And I would say this, that there's a direct parallel between what you
know to be true about God's greatness and how much time you spend in this book.
There's a world, there's a group of people, there's some Christians that are carnal Christians
that are just kind of, you know, whatever, however you want to describe them, they're
not really in, if you will, and they don't know the greatness of God like somebody that's
really walking with God and in His Word and having that close fellowship with God.
This evening, David, he's a man after God's own heart is what we read in the book of Acts,
and David was a man, if you think about the Psalms, where he spent time with the Lord
and he knew God, and he says, for thou art great.
Have you ever used that word, talking about a burger, a steak, a pizza, man, that was great.
Listen, sometimes we do that in our English language, but I want you to understand this
evening that this truth, where the psalmist says, for thou art great, understand with
me that there's nothing else like Him.
There's no one else like Him.
He's on a level that's beyond what any of us could fully comprehend, thus the psalmist
says His greatness is unsearchable, but he says, for thou art great.
Notice not only does he recognize the greatness of God, but notice in verse number 10 there,
he says, and doest wondrous things.
If I were to look at the first two statements of verse number 10 and I think about the character,
the attribute, the nature, if you will, of God, that He's great, but then we see that
it says, and doest wondrous things.
These are those actions, the things that God does, and the word wondrous means to be marvelous,
to be wonderful, surpassing, or extraordinary, and you begin to think about how the psalmist
would say, for thou art great, and doest wondrous things.
I wonder this evening, are there some wondrous things that you can look to that God's done,
not just historically in His Word, but I'm saying some wondrous things that He's done
in your life.
Listen, it was a wonderful thing when He saved your soul, amen.
That's the miracle of a moment.
I mean, listen, sometimes people talk about, well, is God still doing miracles today?
I would submit to you that every time a sinner bows their head and their heart and they trust
Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that is a miracle, an absolute miracle.
We've passed from death unto life, hallelujah.
What a wonderful truth, and we begin to think about the fact that He doeth and doest wondrous
things.
You begin to see how God works and what God does and how God moves and how He answers
your prayer, and we stand in awe of Him.
The psalmist says, thou art great, and doest wondrous things.
We won't take the time tonight to rehearse many of them, but I want you to think about
David.
We don't know exactly when he's writing Psalm 86.
We don't know all the things that have taken place in his life up to the particular time
of the writing, but we do know that David was an eyewitness of God doing some wondrous
things.
David experienced firsthand God doing some wondrous things, some extraordinary things,
and David understood the power of God, that God is great, and he understood that God was
able to do wondrous things.
It impacts the way we pray.
It impacts the way that we live.
When we understand that God is great, when we understand that He doeth wondrous things,
it's going to impact your behavior.
It's going to impact my behavior.
It's going to impact how we want to talk about Him.
Why?
Because my God is great, and I want to talk about Him.
I want to make Him known.
I think about Paul when he's there, and he's in Athens, and he sees a city that's wholly
given to idolatry, and he says to those people after he'd gone through, and he begins to
chat with them and really preach to them, and he tells them that he saw this altar to
the unknown God, Him declare I unto you.
What a joy it is to make Christ known, because He's great, and He doeth wondrous things.
This evening, we find that here, as we consider what the psalmist recognized, we too must
recognize these truths.
We must not only recognize them through, you know, some intellectual level, through
some learning, but we must know experientially that our God is great and that He doeth wondrous
things.
You ought to be able to look back in your life, and you better be able to see in your
life how God is great in your life and how He's done some wondrous things in your life.
It's good for us to be able to talk to our children and grandchildren and other folks
in our church that God would give us opportunity to be able to have an influence in their lives
and to share with them how great our God is.
He ends verse number 10 by saying this, thou art God alone.
He has no equal.
There's none like Him.
Aren't you thankful for that?
I mean, listen, this evening as we see what David is writing, thou art God alone.
David, of course, the king of Israel, and we can understand, again, not knowing the
exact timing of the writing, but you begin to understand some of what has taken place
in Israel's history, not only after the reign of David, but prior to the reign of David.
And you'll find that there are times, if you look through the period of the judges before
there were any kings, there was a time in which Israel would follow after idols.
They went into a land where God told them, don't do after what you saw in Egypt and don't
do after what you're going to see in the land.
Don't serve their little g-gods.
And we find that as you study the Scriptures, listen, we come in contact all the time with
people of various just backgrounds in life that they do not know our God.
There are some that are polytheistic, that have this idea that there are many gods, this
plurality of gods, and we find that while they're in Egypt, they lived in a place, the
children of Israel, where they were polytheistic, where they were confronted regularly with
all of these other little g-gods.
Idolatry was a major issue for the children of Israel, and I find that still today, though
it looks different, that idolatry continues to be a problem amongst God's people.
But here, David says, now art God alone.
Aren't you thankful to know the one and only true God?
Seriously.
We could be somewhere tonight where we've not been exposed to the truth of the gospel.
We could be somewhere tonight where we don't have a Bible in our own language, that we
do not know that God is great, that He doeth wondrous things, and that He is God alone.
We could be worshipping, who knows what we could be worshipping.
They worship, you think about graven images, and you think about molten images, and we
shared this in Sunday school with the teenagers a couple of weeks ago, and you begin to understand
what's taking place and how this situation with Josiah as he's the king, man, he ground
those things into powder.
He got rid of those images.
And I know that that's way after David was reigning as king of Israel, but I want you
to understand this evening that there were idols, there were images, and they were images
that were made by the hands of man.
It's an amazing thing.
You begin to think about oftentimes throughout the scriptures, God will confront His people
because you've cut down that tree, and then with your own hands you fashion that wood
into an idol, and then you pray to it, and you think that it's somehow going to hear
you or answer you.
It makes zero sense.
And especially when they had been exposed to the true and living God, the only God.
He's the one that said, I will be your God, ye shall be my people.
And this evening we begin to look at what David, what the psalmist recognized, and I
hope this evening that each of us would come to the same conclusion that we read in verse
number 10, that when we understand the truth of God's Word, when we have been walking with
God that we understand thou art great.
We just sang it, how great thou art.
I think about that third verse, when He paid for your sin and for my sin, man, it's amazing.
Think about that fourth verse, when He comes back for us, hallelujah, I'm looking forward
to that.
And this evening thou art great and doest wondrous things, thou art God alone.
This evening I know that it's a truth that I think if I were to ask you when you came
in this evening, hey, do you think that God is great?
Absolutely.
Do you think that He doest wondrous things?
Yes.
Do you think He is God alone?
I think all of us would answer positively yes.
I know that, I understand that, I've recognized that, I believe that, but I want you to notice
verse number 11.
Not only do we notice what the psalmist recognized, but number two, I want you to notice how the
psalmist responds.
What we believe to be true will have an impact on our behavior.
I've mentioned that so many times over the years.
What we believe to be true will impact our behavior.
And we find this evening when we truly know what the psalmist knew in verse number 10,
when we declare that, when we have certainty of those three truths that are mentioned in
verse number 10, it will impact how we respond and what we do, how we live.
Notice the first request that is made when we notice how the psalmist responds.
Verse 3 says, teach me thy way, O Lord.
Teach me thy way, O Lord.
I believe this is a logical response to that which he'd recognized, that God is great,
that He doest wondrous things, and that He is God alone, therefore, recognizing who He
is and understanding who I am, then I come to the place of submission, a place of humility.
Teach me Thy way, O Lord."
You know, to be taught, you must be teachable.
You say, that's pretty simple.
You know how many people don't get that?
Honestly.
You know how many people do not get that basic truth?
You ever deal with somebody and say, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know.
And you're like, would you stop saying I know?
Because you don't know.
Let me, has it ever happened to you?
In the workplace, in some setting, whatever it might be.
And it's kind of funny because I've thought that sometimes, if you already knew, why did
you come ask me?
Have you ever felt that way?
And I know sometimes we shouldn't respond how we really feel, but that's how we feel
inside.
Like, why are you asking me if you already know?
Because you came and asked me a question, I'm trying to give you an answer, and all
you say is, I know, I know, I know.
Sometimes somebody asks you a question, you ever have this happen, they ask you a question
and then they don't even let you answer it.
They just begin to answer their own question.
Has it ever happened to you?
Like, hold on, did you ask me or were you just wanting me to hear you answer your question?
But see, David understood who God is.
He understood, he had this view of God that was proper.
This view of God that was biblical.
This view of God that all of God's people need, for thou art great and doest wondrous
things, thou art God alone, teach me thy way, O Lord.
See sometimes we think we know what's best.
Maybe I should say oftentimes we think we know what's best.
We think we know the path that we ought to go on, we think we got life figured out, and
so on and so forth, but we find that David comes to this place of submission, this place
of humility, this place of being teachable.
Teach me.
How often is it that we go to the Lord and truly just say, Lord, teach me.
Teach me thy statutes.
Teach me thy word.
Teach me thy way.
Help me to understand.
Help me to grasp, listen, God's given us a book that's so valuable for us.
It's a book that it says of itself that it's profitable for us.
All scripture is given by inspiration and is profitable, and I'm thankful this evening
that he's given us a book, but we must come to the place after we recognize these things
to be so that we find in verse number 10 that we respond by saying, Lord, teach me.
Teach me thy way, O Lord.
Who better to teach you, who better to teach me than God?
The one who's great, the one who doest wondrous things, the one who is God alone.
How much better is it for us to come and sit at the feet of Jesus as we looked at a few
weeks ago, too busy for Jesus, and how Martha's running around and doing all that she's doing,
but Mary is there at the feet of Jesus.
How beneficial for us this evening to come to that place and say, teach me thy way, O
Lord.
That comes to the place of requesting to be taught.
It's he, the individual, the child of God that recognizes their need to be taught.
He says this, the second statement that he makes in verse number 11, I will walk in thy
truth.
Many years ago on a Wednesday evening series, I taught through some of the I will statements
in the book of Psalms.
The Psalms is unique where you find that the psalmist regularly will use these I will statements.
I mentioned one this morning from Psalm 34, I will bless the Lord at all times, right?
And we begin to look here at this truth that he says in verse number 11, I will walk in
thy truth.
That I will is a statement of resolve, a statement of determination, something that's purposed.
He doesn't say teach me thy way, O Lord, and I'll think about it, I'll consider it, I'll
review it.
No, I will walk in thy truth.
We begin to understand this evening that God has given to us truth and we have much
more than David had.
Aren't you thankful that you have a whole Bible this evening?
Could you imagine if you only had a portion of God's Word, if you didn't have the entirety
of it, but we have all of God's Word tonight.
And we have, we understand that God said that His Word is truth.
And we understand this evening that it's precious, the wise man, he said, buy the truth and sell
it not.
Listen, its price is far above rubies.
Listen, the truth of God's Word, the psalmist talks about how he rejoiced like that one
that found treasure.
And we find this evening that God's Word is precious and here the psalmist says, teach
me thy way, O Lord, and then says, I will walk in truth.
It is a commitment to obedience, it's a powerful declaration this evening.
We too, if we recognize what we referenced in verse number 10, if we recognize these
three things to be true in our lives, then we too will come to the Lord and make that
request of teach me thy way, O Lord, and we will say, I will walk in thy truth.
I remember as a kid, and maybe some of you remember this as well, ours is not to reason
why just to do or die.
Anyone ever hear that statement?
You guys are, just you and me, Mark, I mean, come on, right?
Yours is not to reason why just to do or die.
I heard that from my dad 105 times, man.
And it was just kind of that mindset of just do it because I told you to, right?
And we find this evening that as we begin to look here and we think about this declaration,
this commitment to obedience, it's not for me to lay it out and say, well, am I going
to do this?
Am I not going to do this?
Well, whatsoever he said to me, we're to do it.
Think about this, hold your spot here and look in John chapter number two very quickly.
And I just want you to think about this and consider this truth this evening in John chapter
number two, where we read of this situation, we're not going to deal with the entirety
of what's going on here in the marriage of Cana and in Cana of Galilee.
But I want you to notice what Mary says to the servants, I want you to notice in verse
number five, right in the middle of the entire discourse here of what happens there.
It was the beginning of miracles according to verse number 11, but in verse number five,
his mother, so it's Mary, saith unto the servants, notice this statement, whatsoever he saith
unto you, what are the next two words?
Do it.
The Psalmist says in Psalm 86 and verse number 11, I will walk in thy truth.
That statement of response to the request of teach me thy way, O Lord, as God teaches,
we make that commitment, we make that declaration that I will walk in thy truth.
When you open your Bible in the morning to read God's word, you have that precious time
of devotion.
I hope that you enter into that time with prayer and say, God, would you show me, would
you teach me, would you help me to be a doer of the word and not a hearer only?
Would you help me to take and apply truth in my life?
Help me to understand and illumine the Scriptures and however you pray, all of that, whatever
verses you may pray to God, open thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out
of thy law.
Speak Lord, for thy servant heareth, and these types of verses of Scripture that we have
that we can pray back to God, and we then say, I will walk in thy truth.
The idea of Samuel when Eli says, say this, speak Lord, for thy servant heareth, the idea
of that word heareth is to receive instruction with the intent of obeying.
Not just to hear that I've heard the audible sounds, but I have a heart to obey it.
And so I want you to think about this this evening, and I know some of this is super
basic, but think about this tonight.
Who does God teach?
I think he teaches those that want to be taught.
I know that's a basic truth, but he says, teach me thy way, O Lord.
Can I ask you a question?
Did the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the scribes, did they want to be taught?
Did they ever show up at a meeting where Jesus was preaching that you're aware of, that's
recording the Gospels, did they ever show up to learn something?
As far as I can tell, as I read through the Gospels, they showed up so that they could
criticize him, so that they could find fault with him.
That you read through the Gospels, you see it repeatedly, but I want you to understand
this evening that when we come and we look at, there's a great host of people that are
assembled and they're watching him, and the Pharisees would be there just watching to
see if he'd heal on the Sabbath.
They're not there to learn anything.
They're there to find fault.
So who does God teach?
Well, he teaches the one that wants to be taught.
He teaches the one that has that heart of submission and humility, and we find that
that one that says, I will walk in thy truth, that we...
make that commitment, that declaration, I'm going to do what you've instructed me to do.
I'm going to obey you.
Yeah, but I want to know what it is first.
That's not how God works in His economy.
It's just not.
He wants us to just obey Him.
As we begin to think about the psalmist here and what he recognized and how he responded,
I noticed the final thing in verse number 11.
Notice at the end of the verse, he says, unite my heart to fear thy name.
It's an interesting request.
We're going to think about this idea of unite my heart, if I can break it into two thoughts
here this evening.
Unite my heart.
You know, it's possible that we could have a divided heart, but we need to have a united
heart.
And here, the psalmist says, unite my heart.
You know, there's some things that can cause you to have a divided heart.
Some things that can cause you to have a divided heart, people, possessions, power, position,
all of those things can cause a man, an individual, a human to have a divided heart.
And we find that the psalmist says, unite my heart.
Don't let it be divided.
Don't let anything creep in.
And listen, this evening, you know as well as I do that the heart is, it's wicked.
It's desperately wicked.
It's deceitful above all things.
Who can know it?
And we begin to understand this evening the importance of what we find here where the
Bible says that we're to have this heart, unite my heart.
And he says this to fear thy name.
Oftentimes when we think about the idea of fearing the Lord, there's been many times
that people will use and begin to provide explanation of what it truly means to fear
God and to have this reverential awe of who He is.
And I think that's certainly part of it.
And God doesn't want us to be afraid of Him in the sense of running from Him or being
fearful that He's just trying to judge us.
But it's good for us to have a healthy fear of who God is.
The Bible tells us that the beginning, notice in Proverbs 1 and verse number 7, that the
fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.
We have a generation of people, it's not so common today, but I remember it being super
common when I was in high school that had this no fear kind of slogan and they would
have this clothing line that was called no fear and it would have these various aspects
of catchphrases and different things that they would have on it.
And the reality is that we need to fear the Lord.
Our God is a consuming fire.
You believe that tonight?
It's what He says.
The book of Hebrews is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God.
This evening I mentioned this morning in Numbers chapter 11, this evening I want us to understand
there's some things that cause God's wrath to be kindled against His people.
And so when we look at the psalmist here saying, unite my heart to fear thy name and we begin
to understand the role, the plea of the psalmist to understand, listen, when you get to a certain
position in life, it can become dangerous.
David was going to be the king.
Again, I don't know the exact timing of the writing of Psalm 86, but what I know is that
when you come to a place of power, when you come to a place, listen, David was the man,
he was the king.
Amen?
David, listen, they sang his praises, right?
Saul had slain his thousands, but David has 10,000.
He's not even king yet.
Right?
Historic, I mean, if you look at the chronological order, he's not king yet when they make that
declaration.
Amen?
Trachan?
Do we need to go look at it?
We're good?
He's not king yet, but they're singing his praises.
He's going to become the king.
And if you're not careful, you get to a place of power, you get to a place of position,
you get a place of authority, and all of a sudden you might not have a fear of God like
you once did.
It's dangerous.
And so here the psalmist has this prayer, unite my heart to fear thy name, and to begin
to understand this evening that we need to also be in that position.
Sometimes we can think that we've gone, we've arrived at a certain level in our Christianity
and our walk with God and we can have things figured out.
Listen, we better be humble because God can humble us.
And this evening it's a good thing for us to look at this model that we see here and
to look at the response of David and say, Lord, I want you to teach me.
Teach me thy way, oh Lord.
I understand, I recognize that you're great, I recognize that you do wondrous things, I
recognize that you're God alone, and because I've recognized those things, here's how I'm
going to respond.
Here's my request to you, teach me.
And Lord, when you teach me, I will walk in thy truth.
And Lord, unite my heart to fear thy name.
See it's good for us to have a proper view of who God is.
You know what the problem is today in our world?
I think there's a lack of fear of God.
I'm not talking about just amongst the lost people, I'm talking about God's people not
fearing God.
I'm talking about God's people thinking, well, God didn't strike me down so I guess I'm okay.
I guess God's okay with it.
No, God's not okay with it.
Amen?
We need to have that healthy fear of God.
I don't know if you've ever read some of the law in the Old Testament and what people were
put to death for.
But I dare say none of us would be alive right now if we lived in the Old Testament.
Am I telling you the truth?
Have you read it?
The book of Leviticus, you go through all that stuff, you say, I don't like the book
of Leviticus.
Get ready, in about March you'll be reading it, if you read through the Bible in a year.
But what I'm saying is, listen, it reminds us that thank God for His grace, because if
I lived under the Old Testament, if you lived under the Old Testament, we'd be dead.
Our God is to be feared, and it's a good thing.
Notice if you will in the book of Jude, and we'll close with this, notice in the book
of Jude I mention not only the world not fearing God, but I think some of God's people don't
fear Him like they should either.
We look here at the truth.
Listen, we've got people today that we talk to about dying, and they think it's going
to be a party.
They think that everything's going to be just great, and there's not going to be any problems
and so on and so forth.
And I know I have you in Jude, but I want to remind you, when the Bible talks about
the judgment seat of Christ in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10, that we must all appear
before the judgment seat of Christ, it says in verse number 11, knowing therefore the
terror of the Lord, we persuade men, but we are made manifest unto God, and I trust
also are made manifest in your consciences.
We look over here at the book of Jude, just one chapter, notice in verse number 22, and
if some have compassion, making a difference.
We ought to be compassionate.
We can make a difference, but it says this in verse 23, and others, save with fear, pulling
them out of the fire, hating even the garment spotted by the flesh.
There's a great sermon Jonathan Edwards preached, sinners in the hands of an angry God.
I don't know if any of you have heard the sermon or read the sermon.
I'm told what I understand is when he delivered that message, he delivered it in a very monotone
type of a voice, and he read the sermon word for word, is my understanding, but he had
been prayed up.
He'd been in the presence of God.
I think he himself had a healthy fear of God, and he preached that message, and it sparked
a great revival, sinners in the hands of an angry God.
I'm thankful that God's wrath was poured on Jesus Christ at the cross of Calvary, and
that we, if you're saved this evening, that he hath made him to be sin for us who knew
no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, but I want us to understand
this evening that God is a righteous, just God.
And when David says, unite my heart to fear thy name, we must understand this evening
that this is important for every single one of us, that we understand we need to have
a proper view of God and a healthy fear of God.
I don't want God's judgment in my life.
I really don't.
How many of you like being in trouble?
You say, I'm in trouble all the time.
I like it because it's just where I live.
No, no, no.
I don't like being in trouble.
I don't want God to be angry with me.
I don't want his wrath to be kindled.
I don't want God to be displeased with me.
Am I perfect?
Far from it.
I fail him far too often.
But here when he says, unite my heart to fear thy name, it would cause us to not get comfortable
with sin.
It would cause us to live in a place where I say, I'm not going to allow these things,
these temporal things to mess with my walk with God.
I'm not going to let that relationship thing between me and whoever it might be cause my
relationship with God to be hindered.
No, I'm going to have reconciliation there.
I'm going to get these things right.
I'm going to be right with God.
Unite my heart to fear thy name.
sure that we don't have a divided heart, but we need to be sure that we have a healthy
fear of God. Tonight, I hope that all of us recognize what David recognized. God is great.
He's great. He'd do us wondrous things. I hope you've experienced it in your life.
It's great to read about it in the Bible, but it's another thing when you experience
it personally, when you see God work and do great things in your life. Thou art God alone.
There's none like Him. There's none like Him, and it's a privilege to know Him. So therefore,
what do we say? Teach me thy way, O Lord. Teach me. Let me humble myself. Let me be
submissive. Let me be teachable. Teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth.
That determined, purposed, resolved statement, I will walk in thy truth. Lord, as you teach
me, I'll obey. Unite my heart to fear thy name. Only God is great, and you and I this
evening have the privilege of knowing Him personally. Isn't that awesome? To God be
the glory. And I'm so very thankful, and I hope this evening we could learn just a little
bit from David this evening from these two verses of Scripture, and that it would help
us in our walk with God, that we'd say, look, I want to know Him more, but I want to declare
Him. I want to know His way, and I'm going to walk in it. Help me, Lord, to recognize
these things and to respond in a proper way. Let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank
you so much for loving us. We thank you, God, for your Word. I thank you for this psalm,
a prayer of David, and Lord, I think about the truth that is given to us and the opportunity
that we have to learn from it, glean from it. God, I pray that you'd help each one that's
here. God, the message has been given, the challenge has been given, and now I pray that
in the moment of invitation that you'd help us to respond in obedience. Help us to be
doers of the Word, not hearers only. Help us, Lord, to have that same response that
David had there in verse 11. Lord, that response is so important, and I pray that you'd help
each one that's here tonight. Help me, Lord, and we'll thank you for what you'll do. For
it's in Christ's name we pray. Would you stand with me?